

2. # **Introduction**
   1. # **INTENDED AUDIENCE**
This document is intended for developers, project managers, and QA testers.  It is recommended that the document be read in full in order to understand the functionality of each section and how one relates to another.

This document is primarily intended for software developers with sufficient technical background. Non-technical readers are encouraged to read the document as it might greatly support them in the verification process of North FACS API.  

It is suggested the document be read in its entirety for a full-fledged understanding of how North Boarding FACS API receives and answers to SOAP web service calls. 

Due to the sensitivity of the information included in this document, under no circumstances must this document be disclosed to any parties that are not directly involved in the testing or using North FACS API.
1. # **PROJECT SCOPE**
This project was initiated for the purpose of creating North FACS Inbound API – a Web Service which will allow First Data to programmatically submit standard MPAs and retrieve the submitted MPAs’ Processing Statuses.

This document covers the use of the API and describe the business logic on how to successfully submit the MPAs and retrieve the statuses.



` `FILENAME   \\* MERGEFORMAT North Boarding User Guide.docxSpecifications		Page  PAGE   \\* MERGEFORMAT 2 of  NUMPAGES   \\* MERGEFORMAT 2

This document contains confidential, proprietary information and may not be reproduced or copied without the express authorization of Fiserv. 
