# **4.1. CONNECTIVITY VERIFICATION VIA SOAP UI**

It is of high importance that before any attempt to connect to or to utilize North FACS SOAP API is made, North FACS SOAP API has been verified to be up and running as required. 

Refer to this section for detailed information as to how to interact with North FACS SOAP API using a tool – SOAP 5.2.0. The document particularly addresses version 5.2.0. Details mentioned in this section may not be the same as or applied in the same way for other versions of SOAP UI.  
1. ### **Prerequisite Checks**
The following conditions must be met before any connectivity verification can be carried out;

- IP Whitelisting process has been completed.
- Necessary user set-ups have been completed and the person submitting requests to North FACS SOAP API has the correct credentials. 
- A working version of SOAP UI has been installed in advance. 
  1. ### **Configure SOAP UI**
Several important settings must be in place to secure a successful connection to the North FACS Boarding SOAP API.
1. #### **Initiate SOAP Project Workspace**
Hit Ctrl + N and a new window will open prompting for entering Project Name and Initial WSDL;

Project Name: Enter a desired project name

Initial WSDL: <https://lsuat-api.fdportfoliomanager.com/boarding/north/NorthAsBoardingAPIService.svc?wsdl> 

Click OK

- In a few seconds or less the newly created SOAP project will be loaded with all the presentable components of the North Boarding FACS API. 
- A successful load will be indicated by no error and the web service’s components being displayed on the Navigator panel. An example is shown in the following screenshot:

It can be seen from the above screenshot that the North FACS API web service is composed of two separate web methods that will function together as a whole:

- SubmitMPA is used for submitting North FACS MPAs
- GetStatusByTimeSpan is used for retrieving the states and statuses of submitted North FACS MPAs within a limited time window that spans 72 hours.
  1. #### **Set up Security and Authentication**
Enable Project View by double-clicking on the SOAP project’s name or right-clicking the name and then selecting Show Project View

A new window will appear where additional settings can be configured for the SOAP project. As the communication with North Boarding FACS API is done via SOAP calls, it is mandatory that all the calls from SOAP client side contain a security header with sufficient and precise information to guarantee a successful authentication with the Boarding API web service. 

Navigate to WS-Security Configurations tab to specify the credentials with which the SOAP requests will be authenticated by. Note: First Data is responsible for providing the working credentials. 

- Then select the tab Outgoing WS-Security Configurations. It should be the default sub-tab of the WS-Security Configurations one. 
- Click on the  icon to create a new Outgoing WS-Security Configuration. Enter a name as desired then click OK. 

Click on the  below to add a WSS entry for the new WSS configuration. The entry will home the username and password provide by FD. In the opened pop-up Add WSS Entry, select entry type Username and hit OK. 

Enter username and password as necessary and make sure that:

- Add Nonce field: checked off
- Add Created field: checked off
- Password Type: PasswordDigest Ext

1. #### **Start SOAP Request Submission**
As the preparations are all completed now, it is time SOAP calls can be made to the North FACS API to verify the connection, as well as the functionalities it offers. 

Note that the  WS security header will still need to be customized with the provided API username and password. 
1. #### **SOAP Project Template**
As an alternative to setting up a new SOAP project from scratch, one can opt to import the pre-configured SOAP project below:
1. ### **Submit SOAP Requests**
   1. #### **SubmitMPA**
Use the auto-generated SOAP request (Request 1) or right-click on SubmitMPA > Select New Request

Double-click on Request 1 to modify the content as appropriate before sending it to North FACS SOAP API.

Note: The added or updated content will go into the left panel of the SOAP request. 

Add security information to the SOAP request header for authentication purpose

Right-click on the SOAP request content and select Outgoing WSS > Apply [Name of the Outgoing WS-Security Configuration]

Note: The outgoing WSS configuration must be applied every time before SOAP request is sent to North Boarding FACS API. Failing to do this will most likely cause the Omaha API to respond with a Generic Error message. 

Add the merchant application to the SOAP request body for the obvious purpose of MPA submission 

- Copy a valid merchant application in the form of XML and paste the whole content between these two tags: <tem:xmlContent> and </tem:xmlContent>
- Change the value of element <tem:northChannel> to “FACS”

Hit the  icon to submit the SOAP request to North FACS API

- The North Boarding FACS SOAP API web service will acknowledge the request by sending back a SOAP response which will then show on the panel to the right of the request (Request 1 in the example). 
- The response will vary mainly depending on the supplied merchant application. However for most of the time a successful submission will be indicated by these two most basic SOAP responses as follows:
- Note: This document does not discuss in details failed MPA submissions that are caused by the provided data of the merchant application. The goal is to make sure the connection to North Boarding FACS API is established successfully. 
- A successful submission is characterized by the response below:

|<p><s:Envelope xmlns:s="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/"></p><p>`  `<s:Body xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"></p><p>`    `<SubmitMPAResponse xmlns="http://tempuri.org/"></p><p>`      `<SubmitMPAResult></p><p>`        `<ExternalRefId>?</ExternalRefId></p><p>`        `<ASRefId>3482</ASRefId></p><p>`        `<Timestamp>02/17/2016 01:40:31 PM</Timestamp></p><p>`        `<Status>SUCCESS</Status></p><p>`        `<Errors/></p><p>`      `</SubmitMPAResult></p><p>`    `</SubmitMPAResponse></p><p>`  `</s:Body></p><p></s:Envelope></p>|
| :- |
- An unsuccessful submission caused by the merchant application data

|<p><s:Envelope xmlns:s="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/"></p><p>`  `<s:Body xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"></p><p>`    `<SubmitMPAResponse xmlns="http://tempuri.org/"></p><p>`      `<SubmitMPAResult></p><p>`        `<ExternalRefId>?</ExternalRefId></p><p>`        `<Timestamp>02/17/2016 01:43:14 PM</Timestamp></p><p>`        `<Status>FAILURE</Status></p><p>`        `<Errors></p><p>`          `<MerchantError></p><p>`            `<ErrorId>1</ErrorId></p><p>`            `<ErrorDescription>MPA Info - The Bank is not assigned.</ErrorDescription></p><p>`          `</MerchantError></p><p>`          `<MerchantError></p><p>`            `<ErrorId>2</ErrorId></p><p>`            `<ErrorDescription>MPA Info - The Agent is not assigned.</ErrorDescription></p><p>`          `</MerchantError></p><p>`        `</Errors></p><p>`      `</SubmitMPAResult></p><p>`    `</SubmitMPAResponse></p><p>`  `</s:Body></p><p></s:Envelope></p>|
| :- |
1. #### **GetStatusByTimeSpan**
Enter values for the two xml elements as required. North FACS API will base on the supplied values to return all the MPA status changes that happen in between the selected period. 

- <tem:fromTimeStamp>?</tem:fromTimeStamp>
- <tem:toTimeStamp>?</tem:toTimeStamp>

Note: 

- For fromTimeStamp, the value must not be more than 72 hours earlier than the current date time.
- The values passed to North FACS API must be in UTC format (ISO 8601). For an example: 2016-02-15 10:13:16.887 AM (CST) → 2016-02-26T16:13:16.887Z
- toTimeStamp must be later than fromTimeStamp

A successful call to North FACS API web service will be indicated by a successful response as shown in the example below:

|<p><s:Envelope xmlns:s="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/"></p><p>`  `<s:Body xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"></p><p>`    `<GetStatusByTimeSpanResponse xmlns="http://tempuri.org/"></p><p>`      `<GetStatusByTimeSpanResult></p><p>`        `<GetStatusByTimeSpanResult></p><p>`          `<MerchantApplicationStatus></p><p>`            `<ASRefId>3483</ASRefId></p><p>`            `<FDMerchantNumber/></p><p>`            `<Status></p><p>`              `<MerchantDetails></p><p>`                `<NorthNumber/></p><p>`                `<CloverID/></p><p>`                `<LocationNumber>1</LocationNumber></p><p>`                `<DBAName>MMIS FDTST 0217 TT</DBAName></p><p>`                `<CardnetNumber/></p><p>`                `<MerchantStatus></p><p>`                  `<AppStatus></p><p>`                    `<Code>Transmission</Code></p><p>`                    `<Information>In Process</Information></p><p>`                    `<Timestamp>2/17/2016 1:45:03 PM</Timestamp></p><p>`                  `</AppStatus></p><p>`                `</MerchantStatus></p><p>`                `<EquipmentDetails/></p><p>`              `</MerchantDetails></p><p>`            `</Status></p><p>`            `<Errors/></p><p>`            `<CreditOfficerComments/></p><p>`          `</MerchantApplicationStatus></p><p>`        `</GetStatusByTimeSpanResult></p><p>`      `</GetStatusByTimeSpanResult></p><p>`    `</GetStatusByTimeSpanResponse></p><p>`  `</s:Body></p><p></s:Envelope></p>|
| :- |
