
3. # **Request format**
The vendor sends the merchant information to the boarding API in XML format. This chapter comprises the following sections of the XML request message, with sample XML text:

- SOAP Envelope
- SOAP Header
- SOAP Body

The merchant information should be sent to the boarding API in precise prescribed XML format. If the merchant information does not conform to the prescribed format, then the boarding API returns a failure response after validation of the information. The following points are to be noted:

- Data elements are enclosed in a block of data and preceded by data element name. The name of a start tag is enclosed in angular brackets <**Merchant\_No**>. An end tag includes a slash (/) in front of the tag name </Merchant\_No>. Every start tag should have a matching end tag, otherwise it will be rejected. A merchant number is represented as <Merchant\_No>12345670001</Merchant\_No>.
- There are no fixed set of tags. New tags are created when required. The new tags should conform to the standard to ensure that that the tag names are not duplicated. 
- Tag names are case sensitive. <**Merchant\_No**> is not equivalent to <**merchant\_no**>.
- XML data elements are of variable length. They do not require leading zeroes in numeric fields and trailing spaces in alphanumeric fields to occupy a fixed number of positions.
- White space is not permitted as part of the tag name. However space characters are allowed in data content.  

|**Example of valid XML**|
| :-: |
|<MERCHANT\_NO>12345670001</MERCHANT\_NO>|


|**Example of invalid XML**|
| :-: |
|< MERCHANT\_NO >12345670001</ MERCHANT\_NO >|
- All files that conform to the syntax of XML contain a set of parameters upfront, known as the XML declaration, or prolog. This always appears at the beginning of the file. It includes version information as well as an encoding declaration to describe how the characters in the document are encoded. This parameter provides the version of XML that is being used and is not to be confused with the SCP version.  It describes the current level of XML, and is controlled by the W3C.


|**Example of invalid XML**|
| :-: |
|<?XML VERSION="1.0"?>|

will produce the same result: Prin1Last4Zip is not specified. 


` `FILENAME   \\* MERGEFORMAT North Boarding User Guide.docx		Page  PAGE   \\* MERGEFORMAT 2 of  NUMPAGES   \\* MERGEFORMAT 2

This document contains confidential, proprietary information and may not be reproduced or copied without the express authorization of Fiserv. 
