# **4.1 Soap UI Project**

Follow the below instructions to import the sample project which will enable you to be able to test your connection:

- Import the sample project
  - PLACEHOLDER FOR SOAP UI TEMPLATE
- Save the SOAP Project to your local computer
- Open SoapUI 5.2.0
- File>Import Project (Ctrl-l) to import the SOAP Project

- You will see the project on the navigation panel on the left once the import is finished. Click the + sign to display the web methods. There should be 3 as in the following image.

- Expand SubmitMPA and double-click on Request1 to open its interface. Before sending a SOAP request, make sure to apply the web service security configurations by right-clicking > Apply outgoing WSS as in the following image
- Make sure the URL points to [https://lsuat-api.fdportfoliomanager.com/boarding/omaha/AsBoardingAPIService.svc](https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__lsuat-2Dapi.fdportfoliomanager.com_boarding_omaha_AsBoardingAPIService.svc&d=BQMFAw&c=ewHkv9vLloTwhsKn5d4bTdoqsmBfyfooQX5O7EQLv5TtBZ1CwcvjU063xndfqI8U&r=qOFmeH8jp_d2xkmDNk5tp2P1JYFaGjN1XetZ9DOsV9U&m=Kaq4OGl_ACgHo5zDqlMuQyaaWCb7LI5_04tXjkt0vZ4&s=ghWtxN462cQOmRLC11Xak8Su2hvUR30HYfLSq-SHYnI&e=)  for Omaha WS in UAT

- Click on the green arrow to send the request


- Expand to display the web method RetrieveMPAXML. Repeat 5 and 6 to verify RetrieveMPAXML. Note that MPA ID must be supplied, referenced from the result of step 6 above to make the retrieval request valid.

- ` `Make sure the URL points to [https://lsuat-api.fdportfoliomanager.com/boarding/omaha/AsBoardingAPIService.svc](https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__lsuat-2Dapi.fdportfoliomanager.com_boarding_omaha_AsBoardingAPIService.svc&d=BQMFAw&c=ewHkv9vLloTwhsKn5d4bTdoqsmBfyfooQX5O7EQLv5TtBZ1CwcvjU063xndfqI8U&r=qOFmeH8jp_d2xkmDNk5tp2P1JYFaGjN1XetZ9DOsV9U&m=Kaq4OGl_ACgHo5zDqlMuQyaaWCb7LI5_04tXjkt0vZ4&s=ghWtxN462cQOmRLC11Xak8Su2hvUR30HYfLSq-SHYnI&e=)  for Omaha WS in UAT

- Click on the green arrow to send the request


**Note:** 

- Rather than using this sample project, users can create an entirely new project from scratch by entering the correct URL and configuring a WSS based on provided user account(s). 
- WSS must be re-applied every time before a request is sent to Omaha API WS. 


Note:  It is recommended that if you are using a different interface than Soap UI to send the web service calls that you work within Soap UI first to ensure that your submissions are making it to FD successfully.  Once you have this piece working, you can then port the information over to the interface that you will be using.  
