

   2. # **COMMON ISSUES**
      1. ### **XML response**
After an XML file is submitted, Omaha Boarding API returns XML responses which are structured as follows:  

|Success Message Response Sample XML|
| :-: |
|<p><SubmitMPAResponse></p><p><SubmitMPAResult></p><p>`	`<ExternalRefId>123456789</ExternalRefId></p><p>`	`<ASRefId>123</ASRefId></p><p>`	`<Timestamp>2014-09-30 00:00:00.000</Timestamp></p><p>`	`<Status>SUCCESS</Status></p><p></SubmitMPAResult></p><p></SubmitMPAResponse></p>|
|Failure Message Response Sample XML|
|<p><SubmitMPAResponse></p><p><SubmitMPAResult></p><p>`	`<ExternalRefId>234567890</ExternalRefId></p><p>`	`<ASRefId>234</ASRefId></p><p>`	`<Timestamp>2014-09-30 00:00:00.000</Timestamp></p><p>`	`<Status>FAILURE</Status></p><p>`	`<Errors></p><p>`		`<MerchantError></p><p>`			`<ErrorId>1</ErrorId></p><p>`			`<ErrorDescription></ErrorDescription></p><p>`			`<LineNumber/></p><p>`			`<ColumnNumber/></p><p>`		`</MerchantError></p><p>`	`</Errors></p><p></SubmitMPAResult></p><p></SubmitMPAResponse></p>|
ExternalRefId: It will hold the external Ref Id received from Client.

ASRefId: It will hold the MPA ID generated from Fiserv Boarding system in case of success. It will be blank in case of failure.

Timestamp:  The date time stamp of success or failure of the submission.

Status: if the MPA XML Content passes the validation, it will be SUCCESS. Otherwise, it will be FAILURE.

Errors: It will hold the MerchantError tags – Only applicable if the MPA XML Content fails against the validation.

MerchantError: It will contain multiple errors received while XSD validation as well as error that relates to MPA edits of boarding merchant.

•	ErrorId: it will hold the Error #.

•	ErrorDescription: It will hold the description of merchant error. 

•	LineNumber: it will hold the Error Line #. It could be sent as empty tag.

•	ColumnNumber: it will hold the Error Column #. It could be sent as empty tag.
1. ### **Generic Error Message**
There will be times when the XML response does not provide any useful information regarding what results in submission failure. 

|Generic Failure Message Response Sample XML|
| :-: |
|<p><SubmitMPAResponse></p><p><SubmitMPAResult></p><p>`	`<ExternalRefId>234567890</ExternalRefId></p><p>`	`<ASRefId>234</ASRefId></p><p>`	`<Timestamp>2014-09-30 00:00:00.000</Timestamp></p><p>`	`<Status>FAILURE</Status></p><p></SubmitMPAResult></p><p></SubmitMPAResponse></p>|
There are a lot of possible reasons to this highly undesirable scenario and the best action to take is having a look at the API log file API\_Log.txt yourself or asking for assistance from involved parties. 

Note: API\_Log.txt contains more detailed information and might help a lot in identifying the cause of the submission failure. 

1. ### **Specific Error Message**
In scenarios where specific error messages are included in the XML response, just follow the instructions, together with related documents to get the errors sorted.   The error messages should provide information as to what is determined to be invalid or not allowed.



` `FILENAME   \\* MERGEFORMAT North Boarding User Guide.docx		Page  PAGE   \\* MERGEFORMAT 2 of  NUMPAGES   \\* MERGEFORMAT 2

This document contains confidential, proprietary information and may not be reproduced or copied without the express authorization of Fiserv. 
