

   2. # **CONFIGURING SOAP UI**
Several important settings must be in place to secure a successful connection to the Omaha Boarding SOAP API.

As per security purpose, TLS 1.0 is disabled and client should use TLS 1.2, The following code is used for C# program where it should be set before making call to the Boarding API.

**C#**

ServicePointManager.SecurityProtocol = SecurityProtocolType.Tls | SecurityProtocolType.Tls11 | SecurityProtocolType.Tls12;

If you are using SoapUI for testing, below changes should be made to make it work.

The client will want to add the following parameter to their Soap UI 

**PATH**: ..\Program Files\SmartBear\SoapUI-5.3.0\bin\SoapUI-5.3.0.vmoptions

Edit VMOptions.txt file in their Soap UI > '**-Dsoapui.https.protocols=TLSv1.2**' 

1. ### **Initiate SOAP Project Workspace**
A new window will open prompting for entering Project Name and Initial WSDL;

Project Name: Enter a desired project name

Initial WSDL: <https://lsuat-api.fdportfoliomanager.com/boarding/omaha/AsBoardingAPIService.svc?wsdl>

Click OK

- In a few seconds or less the newly created SOAP project will be loaded with all the presentable components of the Boarding API. 
- A successful load will be indicated by no error and the web service’s components being displayed on the Navigator panel. An example is shown in the following screenshot:

It can also be seen from the above screenshot that the Omaha API web service is composed of three separate web methods that will function together as a whole:

- Submit MPA: used for submitting Omaha MPAs
- Retrieve MPA: used for retrieving all MPA-oriented details of submitted Omaha MPAs
- Get status by timespan: used for retrieving the states and statuses of submitted Omaha MPAs within a limited time frame that span 168 hours
  1. ### **Set up Security and Authentication**
Enable Project View by double-clicking on the SOAP project’s name or right-clicking the name and then selecting Show Project View

A new window will appear where additional settings can be configured for the SOAP project. As the communication with the Boarding API is done via SOAP calls, it is mandatory that all the calls from SOAP client side contain a security header with sufficient and precise information to guarantee a successful authentication with the Boarding API web service. 

Navigate to WS-Security Configurations tab to specify the credentials with which the SOAP requests will be authenticated by. Note: Fiserv is responsible for providing the working credentials. 

- Then select the tab Outgoing WS-Security Configurations. It should be the default sub-tab of the WS-Security Configurations one. 
- Click on the  icon to create a new Outgoing WS-Security Configuration. Enter a name as desired then click OK. 


Click on the  below to add a WSS entry for the new WSS configuration. The entry will home the username and password provide by FD. In the opened pop-up Add WSS Entry, select entry type Username and hit OK. 



Enter username and password as necessary and make sure:

- Add Nonce field: checked off
- Add Created field: checked off
- Password Type: PasswordDigest Ext


1. ### **Start SOAP Request Submission**
As the preparations are all completed now, it is time SOAP calls can be made to the Omaha SOAP API to verify the connection, as well as the functionalities. 


` `FILENAME   \\* MERGEFORMAT North Boarding User Guide.docx		Page  PAGE   \\* MERGEFORMAT 7 of  NUMPAGES   \\* MERGEFORMAT 7

This document contains confidential, proprietary information and may not be reproduced or copied without the express authorization of Fiserv. 
